
### REST APIs

Nextpy seamlessly integrates front-end and back-end development with its event-driven architecture, simplifying complex workflows. So you don't ever have to worry about complexities of manging APIs.In scenarios where REST APIs might be essential, such as exposing AI models or services to users, Nextpy offers a robust and efficient framework for creating these APIs.

### Understanding REST APIs

REST (Representational State Transfer) APIs are a cornerstone of modern web services, enabling seamless communication over the internet. 

- **Standard HTTP Methods**: Utilizing HTTP methods like GET, POST, PUT, and DELETE, Nextpy allows for clear and standardized actions over the web, akin to using specific verbs for clear communication.
- **Statelessness**: Each request is independent, containing all necessary information, thus eliminating the need for server-side session information and simplifying the overall architecture.


## Implementing REST API Endpoints

### App Setup

1. **Creating an App Instance**:
   To begin, import the necessary components from Nextpy:
   ```python
   import nextpy as xt
   ```
   & Instantiate the Nextpy app to manage your API endpoints:
   ```python
   app = xt.App()
   ```

### Defining API Endpoints

1. **Using Decorators**:
   Decorators link a Python function to a specific HTTP method and path:
   ```python
   @app.api.get("/path")
   async def function():
       # Logic for the GET request at "/path"
   ```

2. **Using `add_api_route` Method**:
   Alternatively, explicitly bind a function to an HTTP method and path:
   ```python
   async def function():
       # Function logic here

   app.api.add_api_route("/path", function, methods=["GET"])
   ```

## Path Operations 

A path operation refers to a specific request type mapped to a URL path. It is a core concept in building REST APIs. These operations correspond to HTTP methods like GET, POST, PUT, and DELETE, each serving a unique purpose:

- **GET**: Retrieve data.
- **POST**: Send data to create new resources.
- **PUT**: Update existing resources.
- **DELETE**: Remove resources.

Each path operation in Nextpy is associated with a function that gets executed when the API receives a request matching its URL path and HTTP method.


### Example 1: Basic POST Request

```python
import nextpy as xt

async def calculate_area(length: float, width: float):  
    area = length * width  
    return {"area": area}

app = xt.App()
app.api.add_api_route("/calculate-area", calculate_area, methods=["POST"])
```

In this example, `calculate_area` is a function that calculates the area of a rectangle. This function is associated with the path `"/calculate-area"` and the HTTP method `POST` using `app.api.add_api_route`. 

### Example 2: Using Decorators for Path Operations

```python
import nextpy as xt

app = xt.App()

@app.api.post("/calculate-area")
async def calculate_area(length: float, width: float):
    area = length * width
    return {"area": area}
```

Here, the `@app.api.post` decorator is used to define a POST request for the `/calculate-area` path. This is a more concise way to create APIs in Nextpy, similar to FastAPI.

### Example 3: Complex Data Types with Pydantic

```python
import nextpy as xt
from pydantic import BaseModel

class Item(BaseModel):
    name: str
    description: str

app = xt.App()

@app.api.post("/items")
async def create_item(item: Item):
    # Logic to save the item to a database
    return {"id": 123, "name": item.name, "description": item.description}

@app.api.get("/items")
async def get_items():
    # Logic to retrieve items
    items = [{"id": 1, "name": "Item1"}, {"id": 2, "name": "Item2"}]
    return items
```

In this advanced example, Nextpy utilizes Pydantic models (`Item`) to define complex data structures. It showcases how to create an item with a POST request and retrieve items with a GET request, adhering to REST API standards.

## Summary

- **Path Operations**: They are associations between HTTP methods and URL paths, each linked to a specific function.
- **Endpoint Creation**: Nextpy allows defining API endpoints using direct method assignment or decorators.
- **Data Structures**: For complex data handling, Pydantic models are integrated seamlessly.

## Advanced backend operations

Nextpy uses FastAPI, to power its backend functionalities, offering complete compatibility with FastAPI and its associated libraries.
[FastAPI Docs](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/tutorial/first-steps/#path).
